My thoughts about future of Test Automation

I am a tester having 2+ years of experience in Manual testing of web applications. I took a career break when I relocated to Australia in 2016. In early 2019, I have decided to resume my career in testing. But resuming my career as a tester in this Automation world was challenging for me. 90% of the companies in Sydney is looking for a tester who have expertise in Automation testing. They need someone who can create a test automation framework or someone who can write test scripts in Selenium. So , the first step I took was doing an online course in "Selenium Webdriver with Java". I have good coding and programming skills. So I really enjoyed when I learnt the Automation tool. That enjoyment gave me the confidence to become a "Test Automation Developer". But I realised a fact that doing an online course, completing the related assignments and getting  a certification will never give us the real time working experience. I don't have any real-time experience in Automation, but I want to learn Test Automation to become a Test Automation Developer who can design and write test automation scripts.

In my previous company, I performed regression, unit , integration and E2E testing manually. I would prefer to automate the regression test suites. And I think, TDD or TFD is a very good approach to early testing. Testers can help the developers to write better unit tests.  First we should concentrate on testing lower-risk functionality which free us to keep focus on higher-risk , high priority , or more complicataed functionality.  I will concentrate on automating all the repetitive testing scenarios. Choosing the tool or framework is really important when we move into Test Automation. I would go for code-based and open source tool.And when I choose an open source option, I consider how actively  the tool is maintained. I look at the documentation and see how easy it is to install and start writing my first tests. When I write my first test I will outline my test before I start writing them. Our goal is to create anti-fragile tests that are easy to understand, maintain, hand off. When we write the tests we should not stick to the happy paths and make sure that we are including error messages to improve the readability. Having clear steps and error messages also makes it much easier for the test suite to be maintained and updated. Tools and automation are means of advancing some aspects of our test strategy.  
